---
layout: post
title: les-9-principes-de-la-phase-de-recherche-en-design
---


![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*Q5-y_Q5CnX4oKHnlM5vUOA.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">All Nine Puppies by [Kathleen
Borgmeyer](https://www.flickr.com/photos/landhofgreaterswiss/)</span>

# The 9 Rules of Design Research

Lately, I’ve noticed a lot more ambient enthusiasm for research among both early
stage start-ups and established organizations. Businesses have embraced the idea
that meaningful innovation requires understanding their customers as humans with
complex lives.

This is fantastic.

I’ve also been hearing quite a few of the same myths, misperceptions, and hedges
repeated. So, in the interests of being helpful—because I do like to be
helpful—here is a snackable listicle of simple correctives designed to share far
and wide (I’ve been assured that research proves readers enjoy snackable
listicles. And puppies.)

#### 1. Get comfortable being uncomfortable

*“All I know is that I know nothing.” — Socrates*

We’ve all been brought up to value answers and fear questions. We were rewarded
for right answers at school and we are rewarded for bright ideas at work. No
wonder so many people look for reasons to avoid doing research, especially
qualitative research. Anxiety around looking less knowledgable runs deep. At
least quant stuff has the comforting familiarity of standardized testing.
Maintaining a research mindset means realizing that bias is rampant, certainty
is an illusion, and any answer has a short shelf life. A good question is far
more valuable in the long run. And you can’t ask good questions—meaning you
can’t learn—until you admit you don’t have the answers.

#### 2. Ask first, prototype later

*“If we only test bottle openers, we may never realize customers prefer
screw-top bottles.”—Victor Lombardi, *[Why We
Fail](http://rosenfeldmedia.com/books/why-we-fail/)

So, of course there is a rush to prototype and test the prototype. A prototype
is an answer, and it’s tangible, even if it’s simply a sketch on paper. This is
comfortable, much more comfortable than just asking questions, even if it is
tantamount to setting a large pile of money on fire. To anyone concerned about
demonstrating their value by making fast, visible progress, simply asking
questions feels as productive as a [raccoon washing cotton
candy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkTzDh8IKNU).

The danger in prototyping too soon is investing resources in answering a
question no one asked, and ignoring the opportunity cost. Testing a prototype
can help you refine an idea that is already good, not tell you whether you’re
solving the right problem. And it’s easy to mistake the polish of a prototype
for the quality of the idea (*cough* Juicero *cough*). FWIW, it’s also easy to
mistake the gloss of a research report for the value of the insights.

Instead of saving and defending weak ideas, asking the right questions helps you
identify and eradicate bad ideas faster. You just have to be strong enough to
embrace being wrong.

*****

[*If you’re thinking “Hey! This is something my team could use help with,” we
would be overjoyed to pop over to your office for a day and make sure you are
all ready to *[Research Together](https://muledesign.com/research-together)*.*]

*****

#### 3. Know your goal

Asking questions is a waste of time unless you know your reason for doing so *in
advance*. And you have to publicly swear that your reason is not “to be proven
right.” That is *everyone’s* secret goal. See #1.

Often, in the enthusiasm to embrace research, teams will start talking to
customers without a clear, shared goal. And then afterwards, they feel like they
spent precious time with no idea how to apply what they learned, hence nothing
to show for it. This leads to statements like “We tried doing research last year
and it was a waste of time.” And, thus, a return to the comfort of building and
testing. Or, they walk away with different interpretations of what they heard,
which leads to more arguments about who was proven right.

In large organizations, the unspoken goal is sometimes “demonstrate a commitment
to research while allowing our product leaders to do what they want.” This might
sound cynical but I’ve talked to many skilled practitioners in well-funded
research departments who generate magnificent reports that have zero impact on
decision-making. Acknowledging this happens is the first step to stopping it.

It is perfectly fine, and a great place to start, for your goal to be “We need
to level-set and [quickly understand the perspective of people who aren’t
us](https://medium.com/research-things/minimum-viable-ethnography-a047e9358df0).”
Just don’t tack on other goals after the fact.

Only after you have a goal will you know what you need to know. And you have to
know your question before you can choose how to answer it.

#### 4. Agree on the big questions

*“At its core, all business is about making bets on human behavior.” — *[The
Power of ‘Thick’
Data](https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-power-of-thick-data-1395443491)*, WSJ*

The quality of your question determines the utility of the results. Asking the
wrong question is the same as prototyping a solution to the wrong problem. They
will both give you something other than what you need. Start with your
high-priority questions. These come from the assumptions or areas of ignorance
that carry the most risk if you’re wrong.

**The big research question is what you want to know, not what you ask in an
interview.** In fact, asking your research question directly is often the worst
way to learn anything. People often don’t know or are unwilling to admit to
their true behaviors, but everyone is really good at making up answers.

Design research gets conflated with user research all the time. Talking to
representative users is just one of [many ways of answering high-priority
research questions](https://abookapart.com/products/just-enough-research). Not
everything you need to know is about users.

Often the most critical question is a variation of “Based on evidence, what do
we *really* know about our customers/competition/internal capabilities?” This
can be a particularly terrifying one to approach in total honesty, but you
should be able to answer it within the hour.

#### 5. There is always enough time and money

When research is defined as a type of work outside of design, it’s easy to
define gathering evidence as something extra and find reasons not to do it.

Often, teams have to ask permission of someone with authority in order to do
work that is categorized as research. [Asking questions is inherently
threatening to
authority](https://deardesignstudent.com/the-secret-cost-of-research-fbe95739afdd).
If you’ve ever worked with a leader who was resistant to doing qualitative
research as part of a million dollar project, ask yourself whether they would
skip doing their own research before buying a $50,000 car. Stated objections are
often cover for a fear of being undermined or proven wrong or not looking
productive in the right way.

If you are clear and candid about your goals and high-priority questions, you
can learn something useful within whatever time and budget is available to you.
Find studies online. Go outside during lunch and observe people. Usability test
someone else’s product. Get creative.

Just [avoid doing
surveys](https://medium.com/mule-design/on-surveys-5a73dda5e9a0).

#### 6. Don’t expect data to change minds

*“It is difficult to get a man to understand something, when his salary depends
on his not understanding it.”—Upton Sinclair*

This is often a hard one for highly-trained, specialist researchers to embrace,
even though [research has demonstrated it to be
true](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/02/27/why-facts-dont-change-our-minds).
If you are used to working with a community of peers who value a certain kind of
data, you may be ill-equipped to convince people who reject it out of hand. And
it can feel insulting to one’s professional competence that the data is not
enough.

The whole point of gathering evidence is to make evidence-based decisions. If
that evidence undermines or contradicts the ideas of beliefs of the person with
authority to make decisions, they will find reasons to reject it or ignore it.
This is also at the heart of why qualitative researchers have a hard time in
some engineering-driven organizations. People who are comfortable and competent
with numbers want answers in numbers, even if the question demands something
more descriptive.

So you have to turn ethnography inward and [learn how your peers and leaders
make decisions](https://medium.com/mule-design/everyday-empathy-6a475e03fd81)
before you try to use data to influence those decisions.

#### 7. Embrace messy imperfection

*“We’re fickle, stupid beings with poor memories and a great gift for self
destruction.” ― Suzanne Collins, Mockingjay*

Human lives are messy. If people didn’t have problems, there would be no need
for products and services to solve them and we wouldn’t have jobs. Figuring out
the best way to solve problems for people requires some time out in the real,
messy world and letting go of a certain amount of control. While an ethical,
sufficiently rigorous approach is necessary, there is no qualitative clean room.
A clear goal and a good question can withstand all sorts of unpredictable
conditions.

The desire for tidy, comfortable activities that look and feel like expertise
made visible leads to the inappropriate use of [focus
groups](https://medium.com/mule-design/focus-groups-are-worthless-7d30891e58f1),
usability labs, eye-tracking,
[surveys](https://medium.com/mule-design/on-surveys-5a73dda5e9a0), and glossy
reports when something much less formal would be much more effective.

Incorporating evidence into design decisions is itself a learning process. You
will never find the right answer and be done. If the process is working, you
will continue to make decisions with increasing levels of confidence.

#### 8. Commit to collaboration

Everyone working on the same thing needs to be operating in the same shared
reality. The people making decisions about the product need to be the best
informed. It doesn’t matter how good the knowledge is, if it’s only in one
person’s head (unless you are in London and that person is your cab driver).

Research without collaboration means that one group of people is learning and
creating reports for another group to acknowledge and ignore. Knowledge leaks
out of even the most well-meaning teams working like this. Collaboration without
evidence means everyone has tacitly agreed whose personal preferences win.
Neither of these is the most productive approach.

Directly involving the people creating the product in asking and answering the
questions is the most productive approach. Plus it’s fun. And there are several
ways to accomplish this depending on the organization.

The whole point of asking questions is to establish a shared framework for
making decisions so that you can make better decisions faster. [I run a workshop
on this](https://muledesign.com/research-together). It changes lives.

#### 9. Find your bias buddies

*“We can be blind to the obvious, and we are also blind to our blindness.” ―
Daniel Kahneman, *[Thinking Fast and
Slow](https://www.amazon.com/Thinking-Fast-Slow-Daniel-Kahneman/dp/0374533555)

So, you did the work and you found some answers. Now you need to decide what
they mean. When it comes to interpreting the results of research, collaboration
becomes particularly critical. Everyone with a human brain is burdened by human
biases. And there is no way to sense one’s own. We all see what best fits our
existing beliefs. So, we have to refer to an external standard (including the
pre-established goals and questions) and work together to check each other.

This has nothing to do with how smart or how well-informed you are. Once you
accept this, and as long as you work in a team that evinces psychological safety
and mutual respect, it can be a fun game to identify biases and call them out.

The [Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cognitive_biases) has
a nice list, along with the Cognitive Bias Codex to print and post on your wall.

#### Maybe, just call it design done right

In sum, what we’re talking about when we’re talking about design research is
really doing [evidence-based
design](https://medium.com/mule-design/lets-stop-doing-research-48efcd7118c9).
Creation, criticism, and inquiry are all integral parts of the design process.
Separating them leads to optimizing for the wrong things out of ignorance, ego,
or fear.

Design is an exchange of value. You have to ask what people really need and
value and what business value you expect to get in return, before putting
anything at all into the world.

It doesn’t matter what questions you ask or how you find the answers, as long as
you are ethical in your approach, honest about what you know, and apply yourself
towards a worthwhile goal. There is no one right way and no one right answer.
Enjoy the uncertainty! It never ends.

*****

* [UX](https://medium.com/tag/ux?source=post)
* [Research](https://medium.com/tag/research?source=post)
* [Design Thinking](https://medium.com/tag/design-thinking?source=post)
* [Workshop](https://medium.com/tag/workshop?source=post)

### [Erika Hall](https://medium.com/@mulegirl)

Co-founder of Mule Design. Author of Conversational Design and Just Enough
Research, both from A Book Apart.

### [Mule Design Studio](https://medium.com/mule-design?source=footer_card)

Designed to work.

i hate to simply say “this” but holy smokes, THIS!!

there’s also not-so well-funded departments who do really good research that
have zero impact on decision-making.

This so much. Took me a while to understand this and to figure out how to get
people to tell you what you need to hear without asking them directly. Or, how
to get the answers by reading between the lines and interpreting what they said.

The struggle is real!

So happy to see this!!! It’s all part of DESIGN!

I need to turn this into a life-sized poster!

I love this kind of Evident yet challenging statement. According to what I’ve
experienced in the product design world so far, I believe, this is often too
lightly considered.

Many people get hung up on this and the conversation on design strategy stops.
People have been doing user research for years and don’t understand the
difference and value of design research.

Lovely read.

This is so right. I’ve easily gotten used to the concept that testing a
prototype that’s too polished will lead to people overlooking the idea itself,
but never really thought that this stretched as far as this — showing anything
tangible is already leading.

I’m about to lead a team of folks from a client organisation into the field for
their first ever research trip. They’re nervous and unsure, so I have them
practicing at home base. The “user research 101” I ran for them this week had
many of the same points you made here, Erika, so this post is fantastic and
useful reinforcement.

Thanks!

I would summarize as: “Design is the process of removing bad ways of doing
things”.

Nailed it! Love this post.

I came to your banquet (your invitation to become knowledgeable)

I read your statements (out of the shadows into the light)

I am astonished! (to take a leap from the past, present and to the future)

Thanks a million for your insight!

I like the subtle style, which I too have been deploying within my team !

darn good.

Your article really caught my attention, and it inspired me to write something
based on a thought you shared. I quoted you and built on your thoughts from
there on, discussing the relationship between irrationality and fear of change.

Thank you for the food for thought. 😁

There should be no rush. If you have a problem then you need to go through all
of the possible solutions first. Then once you are happy that you have done
enogh thinking about the potential solutions it is time to start honing in one
solution and it is only at that point that you want to start the prototyping
process.

Thank you for the elegant, simple and succinct article. I have been facilitating
an activity with teams for many years I’ve called a **Research Planning
Workshops**. These workshops are very similar to what you’ve outlined and why.
It gives me comfort and validation knowing someone else, much smarter than I, is
doing something similar for the same reasons and has explained it much better
than I could have.

So many good points I couldn’t even begin to describe. <br> This article
reinforces that decision making always comes down to people and their fears,
*egotrips* and so on.

The most difficult task is to let go of your own foundations. If we are doing
anything that involves people, we should get used to humanity as it is:
imperfect, messy, crazy and unknown.

It’s really kind of sad that this is so basic and yet still needs to be
re-iterated. Can’t really say we’ve come along way. But then given that, it’s
good that it is re-iterated.

Just in time. Stepping into design think sessions and this is refreshing. Thank
you for thinking, writing, publishing this.
